---
title: Advantages of Using PreSigned URLs vs. Direct File Uploads with AWS SDK to S3
date: 2023-06-11T01:25:00-04:00
author: Yoonsoo Park
description: "PreSigned URLs vs. Direct File Uploads with AWS SDK to S3"
categories:
  - AWS
tags:
  - S3
---

This article discusses the advantages of using PreSigned URLs compared to direct file uploads on the server side.

## What are PreSigned URLs?

PreSigned URLs are temporary URLs generated by AWS services that allow anyone with the URL to perform specific actions on an S3 object, such as reading an object, for a limited time period.

## What is Direct File Upload?

Direct file upload, on the other hand, is a process where a file is uploaded directly to S3 using AWS SDK from a server-side application.

## Advantages of PreSigned URLs

### 1. Offloading Server Responsibility

The most significant advantage of using PreSigned URLs is that they offload the server's responsibility to handle file uploads. This means the client can directly upload a file to S3, without needing to first send the file to the server. The result is reduced load on the server, freeing resources for other operations and improving overall system performance.

### 2. Security

PreSigned URLs are secure. They provide temporary access, which can be controlled by specifying an expiration time when creating the URL. Once the URL has expired, it can no longer be used to upload or download content. In comparison, server-side uploads require long-term access credentials, which may potentially be more vulnerable to misuse.

### 3. Network Efficiency

With PreSigned URLs, files can be uploaded directly from the client to S3. This avoids the need for data to travel from the client to the server and then from the server to S3, effectively halving the network journey and improving efficiency.

### 4. Reduced Latency

Since the data is transferred directly from the client to S3, there is reduced latency as the data doesn't need to route through the application server.

## So!!

While both PreSigned URLs and direct file uploads via AWS SDK have their use cases, the benefits of using PreSigned URLs, particularly in scenarios where large files are being handled, are clear. Not only do they help maintain server performance and enhance network efficiency, but they also offer a secure and convenient way to manage file uploads in your applications.

Tomorrow is Moday, guys. Let's get some good sleep. We might need it. 
Cheers! 🍺
